-CLARKSON:  Tonight, Richard
spins off the track. Twice!
-Jay Kay tries to get
to number one.
And Germany or Britain,
which is best?
Thank you. Hello!
Hello and welcome.
Thanks very much. Now...
Now, after our, uh,
our recent trip to Japan,
where I raced
the bullet train,
I stayed on for an extra day
so I could drive
the incredible Nissan GT-R
around the track.
Now, James, on the other hand,
he decided to stay on
for a little while
because he wanted
to drive a car
which he claimed
would be a lot more relevant
to the average
British motorist
than a jumped-up
£50,000 Datsun.
MAY:  Now, I'm fairly confident
you won't have seen
one of these before.
Are you ready?
It's called the Orochi,
and it's looks are based
on a fish, a snake and
Pamela Anderson's mouth.
I rather like it.
It costs £44,000.
It's made by a company
called Mitsuoka.
You've probably
never heard of them either,
but they are a proper
Japanese car maker.
In fact, they're the tenth
biggest car maker
in the country,
after Toyota, Nissan, Honda
and six others.
Mitsuoka makes the chassis,
the body and the interior
all by itself,
but the engine,
a 3.3-litre V6,
comes from Toyota.
So, it looks
like a sports car,
but is it any good as one?
Well, it isn't very fast,
it doesn't make much noise
and the ride
is surprisingly comfortable.
By which I mean,
the ride is actually
rather excellent
for a supercar,
so, obviously,
I think it suits me
rather well.
Although, Hammond and Clarkson
might like to
continue shopping around.
But Mitsuoka
makes another car,
which, on paper,
is even more up my street.
Here it is,
and it's called the Galue.
That foremost
social commentator,
Alan Partridge,
once said that the Lexus
is Japan's Mercedes-Benz.
In which case,
the Mitsuoka Galue could be,
but this is only a hunch,
Japan's Rolls-Royce.
But at a nice,
un-Rolls-Royce-ish price,
because it costs
an agreeable £32,000.
But looking like a Rolls-Royce
is one thing,
feeling like a Rolls-Royce
is something
completely different.
So, to find out
whether it does or not,
the producers have arranged
for me to do a spot
of VIP chauffeuring.
Not him.
Them.
Yes, the local sumo wrestler
and his manager
need taking to a tournament.
That's exhausted my Japanese.
Right, back to
the Japanese Rolls-Royce.
Inside the Galue,
Mitsuoka has recreated
the ambience of a proper,
old school,
British luxury car.
So, there's some wood-ish.
There's plush leather seats.
But look at this,
this clock is exactly,
roughly like the one
on the new
Rolls-Royce Phantom.
It's like one of those
fake expensive watches
you get in Thailand.
Only a real expert
can tell the difference.
I am a Rolls-Royce expert,
and I was completely taken in.
Actually, I didn't mean that.
What I meant to say was,
"It's an utterly
shameless rip-off,
"and I can't believe
they're getting away with it."
So, what about the performance
from the 3.5-litre V6?
Is that the genuine article?
A Rolls-Royce must be able
to whoosh away
from a stand still.
It can go quite quickly,
but it must never feel urgent,
it must swell very gently,
it must be an orchestral,
sort of, performance.
Which that isn't. Sorry.
Next, handling.
A Rolls-Royce should
never allow its driver
to corner too vigourously
because that would
be bad form.
It must encourage you
to rein things back.
Clearly, it's not quite right
in that respect.
Very sorry. Very sorry.
I cracked on with the job
of delivering my VIPs.
Happy?
Very close to the destination.
What? Was that it?
-Oh.
I think they were
completely fooled.
As some of you
may have found out last week,
I have got an old Rolls,
and let me tell you,
the Galue isn't even
on the same planet.
But you know what,
this car does make me smile.
It's not taking itself
too seriously.
It's just a bit of fun.
It's a bit like
one of those tribute bands.
Bjorn Again,
Letz Zep, the Strolling Bones.
Like those bands,
it knows it's not
the real thing,
but more importantly,
it knows you know
it's not the real thing.
And anyway,
at the end of the evening,
you're still just as drunk,
and you've still
had a great time,
but it only cost you a fiver.
Is that car
going to be sold
in the UK?
-No.
-Good. Richard?
Yes. Now, KTM are
an Austrian bike manufacturer,
and they make things
like this, the Duke,
and it's great.
But now they've decided
to have a go at a car,
and here it is.
It's called the X-Bow.
Now, the body's
made of plastic panels,
just like it is on the bike.
You can see all the innards,
like you can on the bike,
and you have to wear
a crash helmet to drive it,
like you do on the bike.
It really is a stripped-out
track car.
All you get is a seat,
a steering wheel
and a two-litre
turbo-charged Audi engine
that's enough to take it
to 60 miles an hour
in under four seconds.
Apparently, KTM say
it is quite a handful,
and as a result,
they won't sell it to drivers
under 24 years old.
Just one thing,
Lewis Hamilton.
He's 23!
Now, the thing about that
is it costs £43,000,
which seems
like a hell of a lot
for a motorcycle
with two extra wheels.
-No, it isn't.
-Well, it is.
It isn't. You could drive
that thing through...
What's it's called?
-Oxbow? Something rather.
-Cross.
You could drive that
through a light shower
and you could come out
on the other side
without your internal organs
being transplanted
into someone else.
You don't get bikes...
No, I'll tell you,
you two have to live
in fear and dread, okay,
that you're gonna
go through the pearly gates
with your ripped leathers on,
knowing full well
that I'm back on Earth,
as a car driver,
with your liver.
And don't think I'm going
to do anything useful with it
because I'm just going
to make it into a hat.
MAY: I actually carry
a card that says,
"I do not wish to help
Jeremy Clarkson be amusing
in the event of my death."
-Fair enough.
-Yes, now, every year,
the Scouts
make a series of awards,
uh, which are relevant
to them.
Uh, I've got the list here.
They're very prestigious.
They've just announced
this year's winners.
Previous winners have included
Charley Boorman
and Ewan McGregor.
They won
best navigation award.
Jamie Oliver
won the healthy eating award.
Yeah. Now, Ray Mears,
it has to be said,
has not won the award
for services of wearing shorts
when you're a grown man.
However,
their award,
this year,
for services to instruction
-has gone to The Stig.
-HAMMOND: Yeah!
However, there's a problem,
a really big problem.
They came down earlier
to give him his badge,
and he attacked them.
We've actually
got some footage
of it here, seriously.
-CLARKSON: Look.
Look, he's trying to stamp
on his badge, he hates it.
And they took him down.
They actually took
The Stig down, two Scouts.
It's awkward, that.
It turns out
he's terrified
of Scouts, yeah.
We think, um, he might
have been a Girl Guide.
Okay, now, bad news.
This week, James popped
around to see me, okay,
down at my local pub,
parked his motorcycle,
outside, not illegally...
-No, very considerately.
-No, it was illegal.
That's right,
it was illegally parked,
but not inconsiderate.
Yeah, exactly.
Fined £120.
120 quid. Now,
here's the thing, all right,
both of us,
in the not too distant past,
have had televisions stolen.
So, how come
they've got the man power
to find your slightly
illegally parked motorcycle
when they say
that they can't find
our televisions?
I know. I don't understand it.
Because I rang up the woman
-on the, uh, parking ticket
hotline enquiry hotline.
-Mmm.
And I said to her,
"Have you found
my television?"
-She had no idea
what I was talking about.
I think that if you've
had something stolen
in your life...
How many people here
have had something stolen?
The lawnmower...
Right. Nearly everybody.
It should be illegal
for the police to do you
for a trivial motoring offence
until they've returned
whatever it is
you've had stolen!
-Yes!
-Does anybody here think...
Well, there we go.
-MAY: Yes, I do.
-I think you're right there.
-Seriously...
If you're watching this,
Mr Brown, that's 100% of
British people agree with me.
-Hey, great news!
-What?
I've been sent
more information
on the Dacia Sandero.
-CLARKSON: Excellent!
-I've got a question
I want to ask.
-CLARKSON: What?
-What if this turns out
to be really good?
CLARKSON: Well, it won't.
HAMMOND: No,
but what if it does?
-Well, it won't, will it?
-Well, it's the new
Chevy Camaro.
And, um, they're really
thought about it.
It looks brilliant.
And obviously
it's got a 6.2-litre V8,
and they've given it
independent suspension
all round.
-Wow!
Independent!
-HAMMOND: Yeah.
-So, they've looked at a car
and they thought,
"It's got four
separate wheels.
"Maybe... What if
we treated them all
sort of separate?"
Yeah, like they've been
doing in Europe for 100 years?
-I still think,
what if that... Look at that!
Turns out to be good?
-I mean, we don't know yet!
-CLARKSON: Richard! Richard,
the Americans are
good at herding bison.
-The end.
I still maintain
it might turn out to be good,
then we'll all want one.
Okay, what is this underneath?
Underneath, this is
a Vauxhall VXR, isn't it?
-HAMMOND: Yeah.
-CLARKSON: Which is
actually a Holden.
So what the Americans
have done, yeah,
is they've gone,
"We need some
sophistication here.
We'll call the Australians."
That is like saying,
"I want some style
for my wedding,
"I'll get seven
crates of lager."
Do you know, you're the sort
of person I could show you
a picture of Paris Hilton
and you'd say,
"What if she turns out
to be intelligent?"
-But what if she did?
What if she did?
All right.
That's enough news.
So, now, Mazda.
Over the years,
they've built up
a fearsome reputation
for making
very sensible small cars
and the worst
television commercials
in all of human history.
This, however,
is their latest creation.
Plainly, they wanted
to give it a name
which conjured up an image
of aggression and anger,
but unfortunately,
the job of naming it
was given to somebody
from Birmingham,
so, it's ended up
being called the Furai.
The chassis is from
an American Le Mans racer,
which is the same as
a European Le Mans racer,
-only fatter.
Body, that was clearly
designed by someone
with a Batman fixation.
Uh... I think it looks
absolutely brilliant actually,
although if you take it
to a film premiere,
-it'll probably take a swing
at its sister.
Allegedly, that is, of course.
Um, the engine, Wankel,
1.9-litre,
460 brake horsepower,
2.6 miles to the gallon.
And, annoyingly, broken.
Which means
we can't put it round
our test track.
So, instead, I'm going
to answer a question that,
literally, a viewer has asked.
And I have their letter here.
It says,
"Dear so called  Top Gear,
"I'm aware that there are many
elegant and dramatic supercars
that I could buy..."
Well, yeah, things like these.
"...But as I'm the victim
of a botched eye operation,
"what I want is a supercar
that is catastrophically ugly.
Can you help?"
Yes, I think I can.
HAMMOND:
This could be the answer
to your problems.
It's a new supercar
from Germany,
and, well,
it's not exactly a looker.
Let me put it this way.
When Jeremy did the Alfa 8C...
...the camera crew found there
wasn't a single angle
that didn't make
the car look brilliant.
This is the exact opposite.
No. No.
-Really, no.
And then there's the problem
of the name.
Does it have
one of those sexy ones,
like all the sexiest
cars have,
you know,
Vanquish, Viper, Raptor?
No. It's called a Gumpert.
-So, it's got looks
only a mother could love
and a name
like a Northern comedian.
-And for the privilege
of driving it,
you'll need £250,000.
This does beg the question,
what do you get
for your money?
Certainly, you're not
buying a wondrous
Zonda-esque interior.
It's just a random collection
of bits from Audi.
Maybe then, it has
some amazing options.
Well, yes, but don't
go looking for night-vision
or a bathroom.
And this,
the rear-view camera,
doesn't count.
That's a necessity.
There's no back window.
Options on the Gumpert
are things like this,
the traction control.
Now, lots of cars
have traction control,
but the Gumpert's
is really quite anorak-ey.
It's not a button,
it's a knob.
You can adjust it
so you can be precise.
So, Hammerhead coming up.
I know this corner.
17%, I think.
-Yeah, that... That...
But worry not.
If that doesn't work out,
there are whole load of
other things you can adjust.
You can change the camber,
the ride height,
the spring tension,
the damper,
bump and rebound
and the anti-roll bar.
Oh, yeah! There you are,
Monte Carlo, Claudia Schiffer,
in your supercar,
"Please can we go
to the party now?"
"Oh, no, no, hold on.
A lot of corners.
"I'm gonna dial in
some extra camber."
With the camber adjusted,
I went for...
-Oh, bugger.
You see,
I think some of those settings
are not an option.
Just leave them alone!
-I've had this experience
with one of my bikes.
All you ever do
is make things worse.
There is one option
this car doesn't have,
and it's one I quite like.
The option to move your seat
backwards and forwards.
Now, that's because
the Gumpert people got fed up
with drivers
moving their seats around
and messing up their perfect
weight distribution.
So, minging looks,
seats you can't move
and gizmos only Lewis Hamilton
can make sense of.
I think you're getting
the picture by now
that this is
no Riviera cruiser.
Their fastest version,
the Apollo Race,
has 800 brake horsepower,
but if you've just passed
your driving test,
they do do, what they call
"an entry-level version",
650 brake horsepower.
This is the mid-range.
I suppose they'd call it
"the Popular Plus",
700 brake horsepower.
-And this is where
it all starts to come good
because whichever
Gumpert you choose,
it's going to be fast.
Gods!
This is just something else!
The engine
is Audi's 4.2-litre V8,
but with added
twin turbos,
all wrapped up
in featherweight carbon fibre.
Naught to 60, three seconds.
Top speed, 224 miles an hour.
So, let's see
how much of that we can get
on our modest runway.
That's 200 kilometres an hour.
That's 120 miles an hour.
That's 280 kilometres an hour,
which is very fast.
300 kilometres an hour.
I'm gonna start
breaking, I think.
That's 186 miles an hour
in 1.7 miles.
And when you get to a corner,
just as long as you've not
been fiddling with anything,
it is brilliant.
The grip!
My eyes are a foot
that side of my head!
Suddenly you realise
why this thing
looks like a boil
on the buttock of a baboon.
It's got downforce,
that's what all those holes,
fins and grills are for.
If you want a supercar
you can park with pride in
Monte Carlo's Casino Square,
this probably isn't for you.
There are many other cars
that will do that job
much better.
But the Gumpert guys,
in their little
German factory,
have gone down another path.
Hardcore Street.
And I do believe
that on this track,
old Quasimodo here
could destroy
every supercar alive.
CLARKSON: Are you...
Are you really suggesting
this is gonna be quicker
round the track
than, sort of, lots
of the really fast cars?
It is unbelievably quick.
But I tell you,
the amazing thing
about this car.
You know in the film
I said it generates downforce
-to stick it to the road?
-Mmm.
Well, Gumpert say
it generates so much
that it could
drive upside down
and still stick to the roof...
Oh, you don't fall
for that old chestnut!
Every Formula One team
says, "Oh, you could drive
our cars upside down."
The only reason they say that
is because they know
we can't prove them wrong.
Yeah, but Gumpert
are going to prove it.
They've built an engine
that will work upside down.
-Yeah, and the tunnel?
-And they found a tunnel
they can do it in.
Okay, so how fast
do you have to drive
to generate enough downforce
or upforce to stick it?
190 miles an hour.
Right. So, they're gonna
get someone to drive
at 190 miles an hour
down the roof of a tunnel,
swerving between
all the signposts,
-fans and lights!
You see, that's the thing.
They found the tunnel
to do it in,
but they've not yet found
anyone stupid enough
to drive it.
Well, this is the last show.
No, I can't.
-Why not?
-I'm busy.
I'm busy.
I'm painting...my horse.
-I just can't do it.
Anyway, we must now find out
how fast it goes
round our track,
which means
we must put it in the hands
of our tame racing driver.
Some say it's impossible
for him to wear socks.
-And he can open a beer bottle
with his testes.
All we know is
he's called The Stig.
-HAMMOND:  And he's off,
not a scorching start.
Stig just carefully
metering out the power,
of which there is a lot.
Up to the first corner now,
hopefully he's gonna
be going faster to
get that downforce working.
-And that is neat,
I've got high hopes for this.
Really, I have.
Yeah, Stig still apparently
touched by Elton John.
Maybe he actually enjoys it.
That is fantastically
controlled through Chicago.
Hammerhead now, slower corner.
Could be in trouble
if the fancy aerodynamics
can't do their stuff there.
Not a bit of it though.
It's so undramatic
and I suspect that could
be this car's secret.
Right, the follow-through,
really pin it open now,
will he have to lift?
Not likely! You can almost
see it being pressed
into the tarmac,
it's so flat
through the corners
like a racing car.
Up to Gambon.
Finally biting back,
but Stig's on it
and across the line.
Hang on a minute.
Hang on. Wait!
If you're right, it's gonna be
up with, what, the Zonda,
the Koenigsegg, the Ascari...
Yep, stuff at the top.
Ascari did it in 1.17.3.
So, the Gumbert
did it in it 1.17.1!
-It is the fastest!
-It beat Ascari!
-Fastest ever
around our track.
That really is incredible
because that is the first car
Hammond has driven
round our circuit,
or driven on our circuit,
I should say,
this year, isn't it?
-Yeah.
-And it's gone to the top
of the leaderboard...
-...which he can't reach.
No, no, no. I can, I can!
I just need a run up.
This is going
to be undignified.
-It's not worked.
It's on!
Okay, that's one, um...
-That's one lap record
smashed, quite literally.
Now, let's see
if we can't deal
with another one.
This is a list of the stars
who've driven
our reasonably priced car
and Simon Cowell has now
been at the top for the last
two series, okay,
which we think is long enough.
So what we've done
is we went back
and looked at all the people
who drove our old
reasonably priced car,
found the biggest petrol head
and invited him back.
Ladies and gentlemen,
would you please
welcome Jay Kay!
Thank you very much.
-How are you? Have a seat.
Thank you.
-You have been
nagging to be here.
Honestly, there hasn't
been a week go by...
How long is it
since you were here?
I was here
on the first series,
I think I was the second guy.
-You were the second
guest ever.
-Second guest ever.
No, there hasn't
been a week really,
I think I'm honest,
gone by since then to now
when you haven't been
on the phone going,
"Can I come back?
Can I come back?"
Yeah, I did...
I have to say I felt
left out, I felt lonely,
I sat in my kitchen
watching it thinking,
-"When will I come back?
-You were always on the...
"When will I beat the man
with the codpiece?"
-Oh, Simon?
-Codpiece Cowell!
Codpiece Cowell!
Actually, I've just
remembered something,
what was it you said
to the researcher?
When we rang up and said,
"Can you come back?"
I said,
"I'm down here for war."
- Yes! He did!
-I'm down here for war!
-It's actually...
-I'm not here to muck about,
I'm not here to be 13th,
I'm not here
to beat James Blunt,
-I'm here to be
on the top now.
-You know...
-So first or nothing else
will do?
I'm not here
to beat James Blunt's
album sales either.
-No, because how many
have you sold in total? 25...
-25 million or something.
25 million and you
can't read music.
-Thank you, everybody.
Thank you.
-Somebody else.
That is a lot.
That is a lot of albums.
Uh, now, I won't bother going
through the list of everything
you've got
because the programme
is only an hour long.
But how many cars
have you got these days?
Oh, there are 37 vehicles,
including motorbikes,
that's including motorbikes,
and staff cars
because people...
-Staff? Staff cars!
-Staff cars!
No, no, they don't
have little flags
and swastikas on!
Or, sort of, you know,
two wheels at the front
and a half track at the back.
-At the back, yes.
Now, since you were last here,
-what have been
the main changes?
-Yeah.
-What's...
-Well, the main stuff
is that I've got
into Porsches,
for some unknown reason.
I bought... Not so long ago,
about three or four years ago,
I bought an RS Touring,
which is the factory sunroof.
-Yeah.
-Rear-seat 911, you know,
-Carrera down the side,
wide arches, 2.7 engine.
-Yeah.
Then I got a 911 GT3 RS,
the reason being because
I thought this car is gonna
be a future classic...
-At present at 997?
-A 997 GT 3RS, yeah.
I've then subsequently
gone and got myself
a 911 RS lightweight.
No, because I don't...
I still genuinely don't
get the appeal of 911s.
-Right.
-Have you driven
a modern-day Turbo?
Not for a while.
But I've driven an RS.
-You know what I mean?
-Yeah, yeah. Sure.
So you drive it...
Or even a GT3 RS.
I drive that and think,
"Actually, this
is a nice car,"
-I like it
but it's a nice car.
-Yeah.
-Then I got into a GT2
the other day, the new GT2.
-Yeah, yeah. The Turbo, yeah.
It's absolutely,
hideously horrid.
-Oh. What don't you
like about it?
-And all...
Well, it's because
it does everything
you expect a 911 to do.
You get that bounce?
Do you know what I mean
by that front end bounce?
-Yeah.
-And that understeer?
If you do anything
about the understeer,
they switch immediately
to death-dealing oversteer.
JAY: Could it be you're not
driving it properly?
-I turned the steering...
I turned the steering wheel!
-Could that be it?
-I mean, that light weight
you've got...
-The air-cooled stuff, yeah.
Yeah, the air-cooled one
is one day going to kill you.
It's sitting
in your garage now
-plotting how it's
going to do it.
-Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Has anyone here got a 911?
-See, they've all been killed.
They were on their way
and they're all now
in a tree like that.
-Honestly, I just
don't get them.
-Brilliant.
-Um, there are a number
of other things.
-Yeah.
He's got a Mercedes Grosser.
Mine was owned by Coco Chanel.
-It was actually
owned by Coco Chanel?
-Yeah.
Your one, is it?
Mine was owned by
the Egyptian ambassador.
Yeah, oh.
When I get in it,
I just cover myself in No.5.
-And you've got a CSL BMW now.
-Tell us about the GQ awards.
Oh, that's... Yes, well,
that's another thing
we've got in common,
we've both won awards
-from style.
-Yeah, you got
Worst Dressed Man,
-and I got Style Man
of the Year.
Mind you...
Look, dear, I like them.
What... Get off!
Show the people at the back.
There's nothing
wrong with them!
CLARKSON: Style of the year?
-JAY: They're nice!
-It's not nice. It's hideous.
Just because
Alpinestars don't
make you shoes.
No, 'cause I go to a shoe shop
and say, "Have you
got a pair of shoes?"
"Have you got a pair
of shoes for a hippo?"
-Right now, listen, we've
talked about cars enough.
-Yeah.
-Which is great
talking to you.
-Which is great! I love...
-We do genuinely
share the same...
-We do share passions.
Oh, we like the same motors.
We do like the same motors.
It is...
Yeah. We do have
the same sort of cars.
-Yeah.
-Right, the lap.
-Yeah, oh.
-Now, see, when you
came the last time, old Stig.
So, what's
the new Stig like now,
he's regenerated?
Well, I have been out
with the new Stig
-who is sort of,
in the master class, isn't he?
-Mmm-hmm.
I've just been out
in that C63.
-He is an extremely
good driver.
-Extraordinarily good driver!
He is quicker than
Lewis Hamilton,
Nigel Mansell and Mark Webber.
Yeah, and the funny thing is,
when you're talking to him...
You know, we go outside,
we'd just had a bit of dinner,
and, uh, chatting away,
and I said, "What are you
gonna have? Are you gonna
have the ribs and coleslaw?"
And you suddenly find
you are talking to this guy
with this screen.
-And then what happens,
he lifts it up
for a bit of air,
you start doing that.
-Trying to look
underneath at who it is
and then he goes
and shuts it again.
Well, he is filtering out
the carbon dioxide.
-He runs on pure nitrogen.
-Yeah.
-Anyway, he coached you?
-He did. He did.
You had your nine laps.
And obviously,
there's no point
-saying this week, where do
you think you've come?
-He did. He did. Oh!
Because you want to be here,
don't you?
I don't...
What can I say,
but yes, yes, yes!
-More than the next Grammy?
-Yes!
-Do you know...
I mean, do you know...
Do you know... I mean,
do you know, people stop me
in the street and go,
"When are you back
on  Top Gear? When are you
going to beat Simon Cowell."
You know, they don't give
a  about the music!
Get on with it then!
-No, no. Simon Cowell is...
-That is what Simon Cowell
is doing at home now! No!
-No!
-CLARKSON: Who wants
to see his lap?
-No.
-AUDIENCE: Yes!
-The tape.
CLARKSON:  All right.
Nice start.
This is the one,
I must beat Mr Codpiece.
CLARKSON:  Okay, now,
let's have a look
at that corner.
-You see... No, it's...
-JAY:  Oh! Oh, it's scrubbing!
-CLARKSON:  Scrubbing a bit
but not...
CLARKSON:
Why were you angry?
Because it is a gutless
piece of American
and I hate it!
Oh, let's start shaving
little tiny, little bits
of Gordon Ramsay
-parmesan cheese
off this .
-CLARKSON:
There's Gordon Ramsay. He's...
-Go on, turn in, you pillock!
-CLARKSON:  No, you're in,
you're in, just...
-JAY:  Come on, come on,
come on, come on, come on!
CLARKSON:  I'd have done
that tighter around
there personally.
Come on! Come on! Come on!
You really are a gutless bit
of Yankee...
Honestly.
-CLARKSON:  You're cutting
that corner,
we allow that
because it's slippery there.
CLARKSON:
There is a man determined.
JAY:  Now, go on,
get it in there!
CLARKSON:  That is about
as good as I've ever seen
-anyone doing the second
to last corner.
-JAY:   Get in there!
-  Come on!
-AUDIENCE: Yes!
Oh, no!
Oh! I can't take it!
Do you know,
I was sitting there yesterday,
I thought,
"Top Gear tomorrow."
I'm watching  The Right Stuff,
which I really enjoy,
"Sod it, get to bed
and make sure you are
fresh as a daisy."
What? You had an early night?
I had an early night, yeah.
So that you'd be capable
of doing this?
So that I'd be capable
of doing this.
-What I've got here...
This is the piece of paper
just been given to me
by the producer
with all your nine laps.
It just isn't important,
this, is it?
You know,
there's more important things
going on in the world!
This is not important.
-Right.
-It is important.
So, your fastest lap
of the nine.
Oh, Christ, what is it there?
-What was he? 145.9.
-Nothing. 145.9.
Come on, surely?
Your fastest lap.
One...
I hate this.
I watch other people...
I'm not supposed
to be doing this.
-I used to watch
other people...
-40...
JAY: Oh.
-6.2...
-...was your second...
Was your second fastest lap.
-You...
You...
-Look, all I want to do...
-146.2 was your
second fastest.
-Please let me...
-You did another 146.2.
-148.2, too.
-Yeah, that was when...
-149!
Yeah, but that was
when I got the wrong gear.
-147, 148.
And then on lap eight...
-Mmm.
That'll be your quickest.
One...
Well, you have 145.9 to beat.
-145...
-I can't... Yeah.
-...Point eight.
-CLARKSON: You've done it.
-Come on! Come on!
Come on!
Well, done, mate.
Ladies and
gentlemen, Jay Kay.
The new number one!
JAY: Thank you. Ah!
It was a 145.81.
You can take that home
and frame it.
MAN IN AUDIENCE:
Who's the daddy?
-Who's the daddy now?
-Not Simon Cowell.
So we are back in the autumn
and the first guest,
I am guessing will be...
-Simon Cowell!
-...Simon Cowell.
-Brilliant!
Ladies and gentlemen,
it has been a huge pleasure,
-the new number one, Jay Kay!
-Thank you.
-Thank you very much.
Now, there's a new
TV show in Germany.
It's all about cars
and it is hosted
by three people.
I can't imagine
where they got
that idea from.
-No.
-No idea.
Anyway, they got
in touch with us
and they invited us
to take them on in a series
of races and challenges.
Now, obviously, we needed
somewhere to stage this.
Yes, I suggested
we did it in the skies
over southern England.
In fact, we settled
on Belgium,
which was a country invented
so that Britain and Germany
would have somewhere
to sort out their differences.
Yeah, and on that point
the producers told us,
"Now, listen,
you are representing
the BBC,
"you can't just turn up
and go on about the war."
CLARKSON:  The meet
was set for 9:00 a.m.
for Belgium's second
best-known race track, Zolder.
And at precisely 9:00 a.m.,
our Germans rivals arrived
in their impressive
German cars.
CLARKSON:
In fact,
we were not late,
we were simply
arriving in style.
CLARKSON: Come on, Biggles!
Come on out.
We are on our own, we're...
...playing for time
and it is running out!
I think we might
have overdone this.
It could be worse,
we could have come
in the back of Bobby Charlton!
-Jeremy. Hi.
-How are you?
Good to see you.
How are you?
CLARKSON:  Our small talk
was friendly,
but, to be honest,
we were a bit nervous.
Sure, they had
a jolly man in a suit.
He is called
Carston von Ryssen,
and he has
no racing experience at all,
but then they also
have Tim Schrick,
the touring car driver
and Sabine Schmitz,
the Nurburgring specialist.
And they were up
against us lot.
The first challenge
had been dreamed up
by the Germans.
It's called
double-decker racing
and the idea is very simple.
The car on the bottom
has a throttle,
brakes and gears
but no steering wheel.
Because that is fitted
to the car on top.
Now, because there are
only three presenters
on each side
and you need
eight people to operate
the four cars,
each team is allowed
to get someone from
their film crew to help out.
And that's a problem
for the Germans,
because, while they
have a sound recordist,
a cameraman and a director,
he is the same man.
So, their coverage
of this race is going
to look like this.
Mind you, but it's not
that brilliant for us,
because, although we have
a very large film crew,
uh, there was
only one volunteer
to sit above me
and, if I am honest,
it is not the one
I would have picked.
CLARKSON:  Still,
he is very brave.
He once fought a shark.
He lost, but anyway!
We do six laps
and have six white stripes.
-Okay.
-If you finish the first one,
-you take one off.
-One.
-James.
-MAY: Yeah?
Will you promise
to use the throttle
-and not just the brake?
-MAY: Yes.
It's a bit odd
not having a steering wheel.
These Metros always had
quite good steering,
so this is a good way
round to do it.
MAY: It doesn't make
a difference, you idiot!
No the steering
is done by the Metro.
No, but you're
steering the Jag.
The good thing here is
they have Golfs on the roof.
Now, Golfs are heavy.
Metros are made
out of snake skin.
CLARKSON:  Right.
Here we go.
Yes!
Oh, hang on, Jeremy.
We have got
an early lead! Yes!
We're already at the back!
CLARKSON:  Jesus, that
is going to roll over
if we are not careful.
At the end of lap one,
the German system
was working well.
CLARKSON:  Whereas
in the Metro squadron...
No! Look!
Look at what you are doing,
left, left, left!
Left! Smooth!
-CLARKSON: Right!
CLARKSON:  Then there
was a complete
communication breakdown.
Race cars...
-Whoa!
-MAY: Whoa! Left, left, left!
CLARKSON:  The Germans
were now first and second.
-This is a disaster!
CLARKSON:
Then there was another one.
My wing men went mad.
-Stick on the inside.
-HAMMOND: Whoa!
No, no, no, no, no, no!
-What the hell have
you done that for?
-MAY: What do you mean?
-HAMMOND: That was your fault!
-How could it be my fault?
You're on the bloody steering!
James and Richard
think it's all over,
and they're right!
Rubbish! You steered
into the gravel.
It is designed
to stop Formula One cars.
How the hell
do you think a Jaguar
with a Metro on its roof...
MAY:  This was
our darkest hour.
-We are being annihilated!
MAY:  With us out,
all we could hope
was that Jeremy and Kiff,
the sound man, would race on
cleanly and fairly.
-Ram him. Ram!
Go, Kiff.
Yes, they've gone wrong.
Kiff, we've got them!
-CLARKSON:  Tim Schrick
was not just off,
he was out.
CLARKSON:  Now, it was just us
versus Sabine
and a man in a suit.
Help yourself, Kiff.
There's no fighter escort.
-Up the inside!
Baff! Yes!
CLARKSON:  Go, Kiff.
They've gone down!
-Onslaught!
CLARKSON:
Keen to defend his country
and his job on Top Gear,
Kiff made a bold move.
CLARKSON:  That is giving them
something to think about.
It also gave us
KIFF: Whoa, Jeremy!
Jeremy, my arm's come off!
-What?
-My arm's come off!
Nobody
has ever said that
in a car race before!
CLARKSON:
We were now on the last lap.
Go up the inside,
Kiff with one arm!
It is quite
difficult now, Jeremy.
What... Oh, no,
it is the finish. No, no, no!
I've let Britain down! Oh, no!
CLARKSON:  Hopefully though,
we could redeem ourselves
in the next challenge.
Who makes the fastest cars?
The axis powers or the allies?
You came up
with this one,
didn't you?
-Yes.
-And you haven't thought
it through, have you?
Well, I did.
It is brilliantly simple.
It's just a drag race.
Let's meet the contenders.
On their side from Germany,
the highly modified
Porsche 9FF.
From Italy,
the Lamborghini Murcielago.
That's the LP640 version.
From Japan, the Mitsubishi
Evo 10, that's the FQ-360.
Yes, that's there's
and now ours.
Our side from England
and driven by Wing Commander
Bunny Hammond,
is the Ariel Atom,
the supercharged version.
Then from America,
I was thinking
of you here, corporal,
is the Callaway Corvette,
also supercharged.
And like I was saying,
you haven't thought
it through, have you?
-Well...
-Let me guess, James,
New Zealand makes
a V16 rocket car
-that somehow
we don't know about.
-They don't.
MAY:  However,
India was on our side.
So, whilst I waited
for one of their cars
to turn up,
I sent the others off
to neuter the 250
mile per hour Porsche.
And they decided
it would have trouble
putting its 1000 horsepower
down off the line.
So, what we need
is a really short race.
If the race
is quarter of a mile,
this is still
gonna be sitting here
-spinning its wheels.
-Yeah.
Right, you're gonna love this.
There are rules
and regulations.
You like that sort of thing
concerning a drag race,
and they are always
a quarter of a mile.
-It's a standard...
-SABINE: No, no, no, no.
-We drive kilometres.
At least one kilometre.
-One kilometre.
HAMMOND: If you say
a quarter of a mile
everybody knows what that is
-because it's
the standard measure.
-SABINE: No way.
Half kilometre burger,
please... No.
You don't.
It's a quarter pounder,
and you have a quarter-mile
drag race.
-It's the British way.
-HAMMOND: Let's do it.
CLARKSON:  With the 9FF
hopefully out of it,
my attention
turned to the Lamborghini.
What I'm hoping,
praying is that being Italian
it changes sides halfway down.
CLARKSON:  As we got ready,
James's Indian car
finally turned up.
Supercharged. Supercharged.
Charged.
James, don't forget
to turn your traction
control off, mate.
Cock. I've just remembered
the Australians.
They do that VXR thing.
CLARKSON:  Lofty Hammond
got a lightning start.
This is unbelievable
acceleration!
CLARKSON:  The atom in the Atom
would clearly win
but who would come second?
-Come on!
The Lambo's got me.
CLARKSON:
But could I hold off
that monstrous Porsche?
Yes!
Yeah, that is ours!
That is ours!
-So, how do you feel now?
-MAN: Yeah.
So we were first.
Let's just say that again,
-just to make it clear, first.
-First.
-First. Third.
-First. First.
And last.
-Well, you say
"last" because...
-SABINE: Yes!
There's a symmetry to that,
we had first and last,
the two most significant
places in the drag race
-are owned by us.
-SABINE: And the middle!
We own the whole territory.
You won the double deckers,
we've got some points back.
MAY:  The drag race
marks the end
of the team challenges.
From now on,
it would be one-on-one.
Now for this event,
Germany will be represented
by ring mistress,
racing driver, Sabine Schmitz.
We will be represented
by that.
Anyway, the cars...
Each team must bring
something small,
reasonably priced
and from their own country.
So we've come up with this.
It's a Mini Cooper S.
Sabine, what have you got?
-I've got that car.
-What, the Golf?
No, the Mini Cooper,
of course!
Weren't you listening?
-It's German.
-We said
it's from your own country.
CLARKSON: It's not German.
HAMMOND: It's a Mini.
It's still a Mini.
-You can't get more British
than a Mini!
-That is...
-It's...
Alec Issigonis! Now, how much
more of a British name
is there than Issigonis?
-In every...
-Apart from Patel?
British, British,
British!
Okay, so we're
in the same cars.
Just let them do it.
HAMMOND:  So, the International
Small Car Challenge,
and it goes like this.
Slalom through the Ming vases.
Steering is so easy.
HAMMOND:
Reverse into the garage
of priceless crockery.
Then take a J turn penalty
which, amazingly...
-...the German missed.
-Next, drive a figure of eight
while a member of the other
team shoots at you
from a paintball tank.
-One point off for each hit,
escape the arena
through a tunnel
we shall call Dick.
Yeah!
HAMMOND:  But then
it was Jeremy's turn.
Gut  luck.
-CLARKSON: Here we go!
So far not one hit!
-That's the ticket.
CLARKSON:  Still, things
could only get better.
-Oh! I've scored myself.
I only had the figure of eight
to redeem myself.
-CLARKSON: Come on, handbrake.
-Fire!
Fire!
An awful lot of bullets
hitting me here.
CLARKSON:  And no wonder.
-HAMMOND: James!
What are you doing?
-Shooting at Jeremy.
-Well, he's on our side!
-Yeah, but why wouldn't you?
You're right! You would! Fire!
Come on, through Dick!
Yes!
CLARKSON:
Even that went wrong.
So, I was trailing on points.
But I could win some
back in the final part
of the challenge,
the head to head one lap race
around the Zolder circuit,
the winner
would be the first one
to get their towel
on the sunbed.
A date with destiny.
She's ahead by what
she'd call a metre.
SABINE: Whoo!
CLARKSON:
She's breaking early there,
I'm not going to do that.
I dive down the inside.
I'm in the lead!
I'm not in the lead!
CLARKSON:  The TV idiot
was trying everything
to get past.
Come on! Jeremy!
This really was a proper race.
I'm not talking, this matters.
HAMMOND: Jeremy,
let him get something right.
Oh!
Oh! No! No! No!
-They've got
to get up to the bridge.
CLARKSON:
There's no possibility,
in this environment,
-of beating a German.
-That was feeble.
-And then you didn't...
-Sorry.
-Were you shooting at me?
In that tank?
-He was, yes, he did that.
HAMMOND:  After that debacle,
we were trailing
by nine points.
But I was handling
the next challenge.
And it was to be a shoot-out
in my kind of car.
The incredible Bowler Nemesis.
4.4-litre V8,
300 brake horse power,
naught to 60 in six seconds.
Top speed, 130 miles an hour.
But, as always, with a Bowler,
it can do that
anywhere on anything.
And better still,
my opponent
would be the accountant.
-Driven a Bowler before?
-No.
Good. Good.
Well, um, they're terrifying.
-Does he not do any racing?
-No, never,
he hasn't got a car.
No. He has a licence,
that's it.
One driver dislodged his lung
when he went too fast.
Yeah.
But you'll be fine,
you'll enjoy this.
Good luck.
It would be a five lap race
over a track
that was 60% Tarmac
and, thanks to James,
60% gravel.
We are off.
Come on, mighty Bowler.
HAMMOND:  On Tarmac,
the accountant kept up,
but once we hit the dirt,
he wouldn't see me for dust.
Yes! More like it!
Meanwhile, back at base...
MAY:
Sit down, colonel.
You're not interested
in these, are you?
Do you know what?
Your mind cannot comprehend
of how uninterested I am
in things like this.
CLARKSON:  Back on track,
Hammond couldn't shake the man
in the suit off his tail.
He was clearly
a worthy adversary.
Keep your foot in Hammond,
be brave.
CLARKSON:
A point Hammond proved,
moments later.
If you don't get that going,
Hammond, for us,
the competition is over!
That didn't go well, then.
-HAMMOND:  This was a race
we had to win.
But the VAT man
had a big lead.
Oh, this... I'm going
to get grief for this, now,
this is not good.
Cooler! Eight weeks!
Where's the track gone? Oh!
-CLARKSON: Is he gaining?
-He is gaining.
HAMMOND:  On the last corner,
I decided to take him
on the outside.
I can have him here!
Yes!
Yeah! Ah!
-CLARKSON: Well done, then.
-Thank you!
CLARKSON:  You know
what a bad loser is?
Well, Hammond
is what's called a bad winner.
Yes!
-Oh! Oh!
HAMMOND:
What do you think of that?
Well, then, congratulate me,
then, I've won.
Did you notice, I was first?
CLARKSON:
After Hammond's modest win,
we were trailing
by just four points
as we went
into the last event.
It's a two-lap race
of the Zolder circuit.
And it's between
a Porsche 911,
a racing Porsche 911,
which will be driven by
professional racing driver,
Tim Schrick.
And he will be against
an Aston Martin DBRS9,
which will be driven
by James May.
Do we have to use James?
Well, no, you did
the Bowler thing,
I did the Mini thing,
it's his turn.
But, he's going to lose,
badly.
CLARKSON:  Happily, though,
I'd come up with a plan.
-CLARKSON: You know
what I mean?
-Clever. Very clever.
-It's James.
-Yeah, it's James,
he's come in for the race.
-CLARKSON: He always...
-Roughly James' size...
SABINE: He lost 30 kilos
in five minutes?
Yeah, he always
dresses like this when
he drives a racing car.
CLARKSON: James,
best of luck, mate.
-James, good luck, mate.
-SABINE: And his hair?
Who cut his hair?
-CLARKSON: Best of luck.
-Good luck.
-CLARKSON: He's lost it.
Don't disturb him when
he's focused and in the zone,
ready for a race.
He's ice-cool.
Well, this could work.
-Could do.
-There's every chance.
CLARKSON:
It would be a rolling start.
Because we were
four points behind,
James, who's now
warming his tyres up,
had to set off four seconds
after the Porsche.
The race was on.
-Go, James!
-Go, James! Go!
CLARKSON:  The simple fact
of the matter is this,
our young man
had to shoot down
their young man
at the rate
of two seconds a lap.
If he does full throttle
on the straight, I'm sure
it's not Captain Slow.
-I know...
- That's
his nickname, you know?
It's like we call him "Lofty".
It's the opposite.
CLARKSON:  Towards the end
of the first lap,
James had closed the gap
to just one second.
James was driving brilliantly,
-but, then, disaster.
He locked up, he lost ground,
and then he had the work
to do all over again.
Happily, James is no quitter.
And with half a lap to go,
he was right back
under the Porsche's wing.
With just two corners to go,
he made his move.
CLARKSON: I don't want to see!
HAMMOND: I can hear them,
I can hear them both!
-CLARKSON:  Which car
would appear first?
Which one?
-It's there!
-The Stig! James!
James. Some say,
you saved our bacon.
Others say I was
bound and gagged
in the locker room.
-HAMMOND: Yes.
And on that bombshell,
that bouncing bombshell,
it's now time to end.
Uh, if you are a German
and you have any complaints
about the film
you've just seen though,
do, please,
feel free to write to us.
-Our address is, 1966...
El Alamein Square,
1939-1945 Jutland Street,
London, W.E.1.
Okay. So, we'll see you
in the autumn.
Thanks so much for watching.
Take care. Goodnight!